# KPIs


Key Performance Indicators seem like some kind of alternative to OKRs. But
they’re not. They’re complimentary. KPIs are the day to day health checks and
performance metrics. OKRs are what we use to improve our KPIs.

The company is an organism. It does business day to day. We can monitor its
health by tracking some set of standard metrics - our KPIs. These tell us how
we’re doing day to day. Using the KPIs, we can figure out what we need to
improve in the company. Someone in the company will hold the concern for making
that improvement, and will engage a workflow to realize it. That workflow,
through its Q2 promise, includes an OKR focused on achieving those improvements.
Once an OKR is achieved, it “precipitates” into the KPIs. For instance we may
monitor the kinds of audit requests we’re getting, maybe they’re all small
audits of $20k. We might decide we want to improve that, so we set some OKRs to
increase the average size of audits (which may involve all kinds of objectives
and results, including more powerful verification tools or something). Once we
meet the OKRs, they should translate into our KPIs - now our avg audit size
should be higher, and that’s become our new day to day KPI target.

Thus the KPIs become a kind of health check of the company that we can use to
determine what OKRs we need to set in the next quarter (or year, etc.) to
improve. Over time, many common OKRs will just mature into KPI targets and will
become business as usual. This allows our OKR framework to really focus on what
we need to do to improve, and take the company to the next level.

Since we’re just getting started, many things which should probably just be KPI
targets are listed now as OKRs. Over the coming months, we’ll work on a KPI
dashboard, and we’ll use that to then figure out what OKRs we’ll need (ie. what
kind of improvements we want to see in the KPIs). There’s a KPI sheet with some
initial ideas of things to track.

For more on the difference between OKRs and KPIs, see
https://weekdone.com/okr-comparison/okr-vs-kpi


