# Meetings

Every meeting can be understood as a Workflow. 

In Q1, the meeting is scheduled and the necessary participants are invited.

Every meeting should begin with a Q2 where results for the meeting are
negotiated. Most good meetings already contain some form of agenda, but it helps
to be explicit that a good agenda is really a negotiated set of results for the
meeting. Often an agenda is just a list of items to discuss, but it helps to
articulate what outcomes you really want out of the meeting - what are the
results? What value are we trying to create out of this meeting? What do we want
to be able to do when the meeting is over that we couldn’t do before? The notes
on good Results from above are helpful here.

Note that in a meeting, every participant is both a customer and performer for
those results. 

Q3 is the meeting execution, where meeting participants seek to deliver the
results they negotiated in the agenda during Q2. It’s important to pay attention
to time, refocus on the outcomes you’re seeking as necessary, and set action
items to be reviewed in the next meeting. If necessary, renegotiate the results
as you go, if you discover that you won’t have enough time for everything or you
have some leftover time, as the case may be.

Finally, each meeting should include a short Q4 at the end, where participants
can review the value they got out of the meeting. Did they meet the results? Did
they cover topics on top? Did things happen that could have been better handled?
What value was produced? What can they do now that they couldn’t do before? 

If you start doing a Q4 at the end of each meeting, you can be more honest and
explicit about the quality of your meetings. Maybe you’ll find that they’re not
delivering much value. Once you do it a few times, you’ll either decide to stop
having the meeting, or figure out how to improve them by negotiating better
results!


