# Results

Defining good results is hard work. But every Workflow negotiation should end
in a promise to deliver some well defined results. Results should describe the
actual outcome or value you want to create in the world. Often people put down
outputs or activities, not outcomes. “Publish 5 papers” is an output, not an
outcome. Why do you want to publish those posts? For what purpose? What outcome
are you really looking for? What value do you want to create in the world?

Activities are things we do. Outputs are things we produce from our activities.
Outcomes are the value we create by our activities and outputs. Good results
are outcomes. When defining OKRs, we want to focus on defining the real
outcomes we want. This is often tricky and feels a bit contrived. It’s obvious
why we want to publish 5 papers. Or is it?

Often it’s recommended to pursue SMART results: Specific, Measurable,
Attainable, Relevant, Time Bound. This can be helpful. Our results are by
default time bound because they are part of time bound Workflows. And we can
make them measurable by finding some quantitative measure, like publishing 5
papers. But we can make the result more specific and relevant by specifying:
publish 5 papers in top distributed systems journals on applying verification
techniques to real world distributed systems.

Ok, this is more specific and relevant and everything. But really, still, why
do we want to do that? It’s still framed as a kind of output, not an outcome.
An outcome tends to be something you have less control over - it’s the actual
outcome you want to procure in the world. Sure, there’s peer review, so you
can’t guarantee the paper will be published. But maybe a better result is “Have
2 different members of the team get invited to speak at a top conference on
formal verification in blockchain” - this doesn’t even say anything about how
many papers to publish, but it gets at the heart of what we might actually want
out of publishing some papers.

One helpful way to think about defining results is by types of results. We
identify four major categories of results:

- Customer Value (CV)
- Adoption (A)
- Reputational (R)
- Sustainability (S).

It helps to try and roughly balance the results for an objective across these
categories. Customer Value refers to the value we create for users. Adoption is
about getting more people using our stuff. Reputational results increase our
reputation in the world. Sustainability results show greater revenue or
capacity within the team.

If you’re struggling to write good results, write the activities you think you
should perform and the outputs you think you should produce. Then ask, why do I
want to do these things? What outcome do I really want ? What value do I want
to create in the world? Often it’s just a small change in phrasing that’s
required. For instance, instead of “Promote cephalopod as a leading validator”,
which is clearly an activity, a better result would be “Two independent news
articles mention Cephalopod as a leading validator” or “a thousand people
understand that Cephalopod is a leading validator”.

At the end of the day, it’s less important what specific text you write for a
result. The more important thing is the conversation you have with your team
around the result and the shared understanding you build around what you’re
doing and why and what you plan to achieve in the next time horizon. OKRs are a
tool for building shared understanding in the teams and across the company
about what we’re doing and why, for the purpose of increasing autonomy and
improving coordination, getting us all resonating and rowing in the same
directions.

For some good resources on OKRs, see
[https://weekdone.com/resources/objectives-key-results](https://weekdone.com/resources/objectives-key-results)
